README.md, before:

# Learning TypeScript

Just one of the things I'm learning. <https://github.com/hchiam/learning>

Static type checking. CLI tool to transpile to JavaScript that can run on older browsers too. Also can use constructor parameter `public` keyword as a shorthand to automatically add properties to a class. I think I really like the `interface` and `enum` part of TypeScript (e.g. as a consult-able in-code reference to help you/others remember what inputs to include or optionally have).

For me, type checking is not only for preventing errors, but also to remind you or someone else of what data or functions you need to implement.

## Try it live in your browser

Official Website's Playground: <https://www.typescriptlang.org/play/index.html>

## Try it locally with CLI

```bash
npm install -g typescript
```

and then

```bash
tsc code-to-compile.ts
```

or

```bash
tsc code-to-compile.ts --outDir output
```

or

```bash
tsc code-to-compile.ts --outFile output/output.js
```

More CLI transpiler options: <https://www.typescriptlang.org/docs/handbook/compiler-options.html>

Some notes on classes, interfaces, `extends`, `implements`, and `abstract`:

- `extends` and `abstract` -> enforce implementation of `abstract` functions in things that extend an `abstract` `class`.
- `implements` and `abstract` -> enforce implementation of `abstract` functions in things that implement an `interface`.
- `extends` (for a class) = `implements` (for an interface).
- But `extends` lets you reuse functions from the base class.
- An interface is just a “contract” with no implementation, but is helpful in other ways.
- `extends` does NOT enforce implementation, but the `abstract` key word in the base class DOES enforce implementation.

## A YouTube Tutorial I'm Following

<https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=WBPrJSw7yQA> -> `youtube-tutorial` sub-folder.

```bash
# you should have tsc installed:
tsc --version
# transpile:
tsc main.ts --watch # or just: tsc main
```

And then you can stop and then run the compiled code in CLI:

```bash
# run js file:
node main.js
```

```ts
function getFullNameScalable(person: Person): string {
  return person.firstName + " " + person.lastName;
}
interface Person {
  firstName: string;
  middleName?: string; // optional
  lastName: string;
}
let person = {
  firstName: "Bruce",
  lastName: "Wayne",
};
console.log(getFullNameScalable(person));
```

(Aside: TypeScript defaults class members to public.)

## TypeScript [decorators](https://github.com/hchiam/learning-typescript/tree/master/decorator-example)

<https://blog.logrocket.com/a-practical-guide-to-typescript-decorators/#:~:text=Automatic%20error%20guard>

<https://github.com/hchiam/learning-typescript/tree/master/decorator-example>

## `interface` vs `type` keywords

<https://pawelgrzybek.com/typescript-interface-vs-type>

- `interface`s are restricted to object type, but tend to be used more than `type`s anyways
- `interface`s can be merged, type can't
- `type` aliases can use computed properties: `type Keys = "firstname" | "surname"`
  - but it can do more than `enum`: `type Container<T> = { value: T };` (generic)

## More examples

<https://github.com/hchiam/learning-js/tree/master/ts>

Commit message:

types are like automatically-generated documentation

README.md, after:

# Learning TypeScript

Just one of the things I'm learning. <https://github.com/hchiam/learning>

Static type checking. CLI tool to transpile to JavaScript that can run on older browsers too. Also can use constructor parameter `public` keyword as a shorthand to automatically add properties to a class. I think I really like the `interface` and `enum` part of TypeScript (e.g. as a consult-able in-code reference to help you/others remember what inputs to include or optionally have).

**Why bother with types:** For me, type checking is not only for preventing errors, but also to remind you of what data or functions you need to implement. It's like automatically-generated documentation.

## Try it live in your browser

Official Website's Playground: <https://www.typescriptlang.org/play/index.html>

## Try it locally with CLI

```bash
npm install -g typescript
```

and then

```bash
tsc code-to-compile.ts
```

or

```bash
tsc code-to-compile.ts --outDir output
```

or

```bash
tsc code-to-compile.ts --outFile output/output.js
```

More CLI transpiler options: <https://www.typescriptlang.org/docs/handbook/compiler-options.html>

Some notes on classes, interfaces, `extends`, `implements`, and `abstract`:

- `extends` and `abstract` -> enforce implementation of `abstract` functions in things that extend an `abstract` `class`.
- `implements` and `abstract` -> enforce implementation of `abstract` functions in things that implement an `interface`.
- `extends` (for a class) = `implements` (for an interface).
- But `extends` lets you reuse functions from the base class.
- An interface is just a “contract” with no implementation, but is helpful in other ways.
- `extends` does NOT enforce implementation, but the `abstract` key word in the base class DOES enforce implementation.

## A YouTube Tutorial I'm Following

<https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=WBPrJSw7yQA> -> `youtube-tutorial` sub-folder.

```bash
# you should have tsc installed:
tsc --version
# transpile:
tsc main.ts --watch # or just: tsc main
```

And then you can stop and then run the compiled code in CLI:

```bash
# run js file:
node main.js
```

```ts
function getFullNameScalable(person: Person): string {
  return person.firstName + " " + person.lastName;
}
interface Person {
  firstName: string;
  middleName?: string; // optional
  lastName: string;
}
let person = {
  firstName: "Bruce",
  lastName: "Wayne",
};
console.log(getFullNameScalable(person));
```

(Aside: TypeScript defaults class members to public.)

## TypeScript [decorators](https://github.com/hchiam/learning-typescript/tree/master/decorator-example)

<https://blog.logrocket.com/a-practical-guide-to-typescript-decorators/#:~:text=Automatic%20error%20guard>

<https://github.com/hchiam/learning-typescript/tree/master/decorator-example>

## `interface` vs `type` keywords

<https://pawelgrzybek.com/typescript-interface-vs-type>

- `interface`s are restricted to object type, but tend to be used more than `type`s anyways
- `interface`s can be merged, type can't
- `type` aliases can use computed properties: `type Keys = "firstname" | "surname"`
  - but it can do more than `enum`: `type Container<T> = { value: T };` (generic)

## More examples

<https://github.com/hchiam/learning-js/tree/master/ts>
